---
layout: post
title: "So Easy To Store Sensitive in your GIT: git-crypt"
---

A frequently asked question in development:



> #### Should I use git to manage configuration having sensitive information like user and password etc. ?



**Yes**.  We need it for convenience but absolutely those files **MUST BE PROTECTED** !

[git-crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt) is tool to help. The following guide is showing how easy to do it.

This is guild is for **Linux**. For windows, please use [MSYS](http://www.mingw.org/wiki/MSYS) as terminal environment.

## Install gnu-pg (gpg) and git-crypt

Use your package manger to install them. For example, apt for ubuntu, yum for centos and pacman for msys.

I am using arch, which has pacman, certainly.

```bash
sudo pacman -S gnupg git-crypt
```

# Encryption

## Initialize your git project 

Run git-crypt under your project directory.

```bash
cd my-git-project
git-crypt init
```

## Generate private/public key pair

Run gpg to creat key pair:

```bash
gpg --gen-key
```

It will ask name and email,  for example here I input:

> Real name: tester
> Email address: tester@test.com
>
> You selected this USER-ID:
>  "tester <tester@test.com>"
>
> Change (N)ame, (E)mail, or (O)kay/(Q)uit? 

Type O and press enter. Then usually a pop-up will ask for passphase to protect your key, just input it.

After finishing it, run command to check your key exists in gpg:

```bash
gpg --list-key

/home/Administrator/.gnupg/pubring.kbx
--------------------------------------
pub   rsa2048 2020-03-09 [SC] [expires: 2022-03-09]
      E7A49A83F7177FEED990F10A18CACCB5807EEC32
uid           [ultimate] tester <tester@test.com>
sub   rsa2048 2020-03-09 [E] [expires: 2022-03-09]

```

## Add key into project

Run command to add gpg key into your git-crypt project:

```bash
git-crypt add-gpg-user tester
```

## Configure what to encrypt

Create a new file named .gitattributes in your git project's root.

```bash
vim .gitattributes
```

The  format  is

> <filepath> filter=git-crypt diff=git-crypt

For example two xml files under my-git-project/config need to be encrypted so I have

```bash
config/production.xml filter=git-crypt diff=git-crypt
config/development.xml filter=git-crypt diff=git-crypt
```

## Push encryption

```bash
git add .
git commit -m 'git-crypt config files'
git push
```

Cool! Now the two config files are already garbled except other can decrypt them!

# Decryption

So  far I have stored my pub key to git with encrypted files. If I delete my git repo locally and clone it again, I have to decrypt the two config files to view/edit them. To do it, just run one line command.

```
cd my-git-project
git-crypt unlock   # decrypt config/production.xml and config/development.xml
```

That's it! Because git-crypt automatically searches gpg keys on local machine, and I already have a private key identified by name **tester** in gpg.

>  ####  But how can others do unlock?

There are there ways to do it.

## Share symmetric key

I export my symmetric key to  a file named shared-key : 

```bash
git-crypt export-key shared-key
```

Then others can use the key file to do unlock:

```
git-crypt unlock shared-key
```

## Share one gpg private key

Firstly I export my gpg private key used by git-crypt:

```bash
gpg --export-secret-key -a tester > private.key
```

Then others just import it and unlock:

```bash
gpg  --allow-secret-key-import --import  private.key
cd my-git-project
git-crypt unlock
```

By this way everyone in a team is sharing one private gpg key, which is similar to above method.



## Add others' gpg pub key into git repo

Assuming another developer has created a key pair using gpg:

```bash
gpg --gen-key
```

Let's say the user name and email are new-tester and new-tester@test.com separately. Run command:

```bash
 gpg --export -a new-tester  > public.key
```

to export the public key as file public.key and send it to me.

I will import the public.key into my gpg and push it into git:

```bash
 gpg --import public.key  # import into gpg
 cd my-git-project
 git-crypt add-gpg-user --trusted new-tester  # add another public key into git 
 git push
```

After it, the developer can do unlock easily:

```bash
git pull  # sync local repo
git-crypt unlock
```

Using this method every team member can have a private key so this is safer theoretically - if someone's private key leaked then others can remove that user without  impact themselves. Unfortunately so far there is no  such "del-gpg-user" option in git-crypt.